Centralized rules engine (#88)
ippontech/blog-usa: posts/centralized-rules-execution-server.md

---
authors:
- Mallik Sambaraju
- Amine Ouali Alami
tags:
- Rules
- Kie
- Drools
- JHipster
- AWS ECS
- Spring Boot
date: 2010-01-23T10:00:00.000Z
title: Centralized Rules Engine on AWS ECS
---

## Introduction

> As software engineers we architect and develop many real world applications solving many business problems, and in those applications we add business logic to solve various issues. Often this business logic is difficult to implement in application code, business rules keep on changing and hard to maintain.

Reviewer: Often this business logic is difficult to implement in application code and business rules keep changing which is hard to maintain.

> As software engineers we architect and develop many real world applications solving many business problems, and in those applications we add business logic to solve various issues. Often this business logic is difficult to implement in application code, business rules keep on changing and hard to maintain.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As software engineers, we architect and develop many real-world applications solving many business problems, and in those applications, we add business logic to solve various issues. Often this business logic is difficult to implement in application code.  Business rules keep on changing and are hard to maintain.
```

## Why rules engine

> A rules engine may be handy in certain cases where the business logic keeps on changing, there is no easy solution to implement the logic in the code, the code becomes cluttered or may be the business analysts want an easy way to maintain the business rules. Apart from these, rules engines implement rules execution algorithms such as Rete algorithm which are more efficient than traditional if..else or switch statements.

Reviewer: may be -> maybe

...as *the* Rete...

> A rules engine may be handy in certain cases where the business logic keeps on changing, there is no easy solution to implement the logic in the code, the code becomes cluttered or may be the business analysts want an easy way to maintain the business rules. Apart from these, rules engines implement rules execution algorithms such as Rete algorithm which are more efficient than traditional if..else or switch statements.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A rules engine may be handy in some instances where the business logic keeps on changing. There is no easy solution to implement the logic in the code, the code becomes cluttered, or maybe the business analysts want an easy way to maintain the business rules. Apart from these, rules engines implement rules execution algorithms such as the Rete algorithm which are more efficient than traditional if..else or switch statements.
```

## The problem

> At one of our recent customer's location, we were tasked to resolve a problem and the application has to look into more than hundred different scenarios to come up with a result. Also the customer wanted to have a provision to maintain the rules separately as the rules can change quite often so that the main applications do not have to be redployed whenever there is a rule change.

Reviewer: ...than *a* hundred...

> At one of our recent customer's location, we were tasked to resolve a problem and the application has to look into more than hundred different scenarios to come up with a result. Also the customer wanted to have a provision to maintain the rules separately as the rules can change quite often so that the main applications do not have to be redployed whenever there is a rule change.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At one of our recent customer's locations, we were tasked to resolve a problem, and the application has to look into more than a hundred different scenarios to come up with a result. Also, the customer wanted to have a provision to maintain the rules separately as the rules can change quite often so that the main applications do not have to be redeployed whenever there is a rule change.
```

## The solution

> We decided to use a centralized rules execution engine based on Jboss Drools (Kie execution server) to make the rules engine a loosely coupled application, to maintain the rules outside of the business application, to make the rules engine available to other applications in the organization which have similar use cases.

Reviewer: ...application, *and* to make the rules...

> We decided to use a centralized rules execution engine based on Jboss Drools (Kie execution server) to make the rules engine a loosely coupled application, to maintain the rules outside of the business application, to make the rules engine available to other applications in the organization which have similar use cases.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We decided to use a centralized rules execution engine based on JBoss Drools (Kie execution server) to make the rules engine a loosely coupled application, to maintain the rules outside of the business application, to make the rules engine available to other applications in the organization which has similar use cases.
```

> Kie execution server can be used to instantiate and execute rules via Rest, JMS or Java client side applications, it supports runtime updates to the rules.

Reviewer: ...applications, *and* it...

> Kie execution server can be used to instantiate and execute rules via Rest, JMS or Java client side applications, it supports runtime updates to the rules.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Kie execution server can be used to instantiate and execute rules via Rest, JMS, or Java client-side applications. It also supports runtime updates to the rules.
```

> Kie execution server can be used to instantiate and execute rules via Rest, JMS or Java client side applications, it supports runtime updates to the rules.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The KIE execution server can be used to instantiate and execute rules via Rest, JMS or from within Java client-side applications. The server supports runtime updates to the rules.
```

## Architecture

> The first version of the rules engine is designed to adhere to the customer's infrastructure, ability to use the customer's source control repository, security standards and CI/CD process. The solution is designed to auto-recover in case of rules engine restarts/crashes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The first version of the rules engine is three-fold: 

- designed to adhere to the customer's infrastructure

- ability to use the customer's source control repository

- security standards and CI/CD process. 

 This solution is designed to auto-recover in case the rules engine restarts or crashes. 
```

> The first version of the rules engine is designed to adhere to the customer's infrastructure, ability to use the customer's source control repository, security standards and CI/CD process. The solution is designed to auto-recover in case of rules engine restarts/crashes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The first version of the rules engine is designed to adhere to the customer's infrastructure, ability to use the customer's source control repository, security standards, and CI/CD process. We built a solution to auto-recover in case of rules engine restarts or crashes.
```

- ### Deployment architecture

> The rules engine is deployed into the existing AWS ECS infrastructure as a spring boot application. The service has access to AWS EFS service so that it can store its state in the metadata file on the network so that it can recover from the unexpected restarts.

Reviewer: ...access to *the* AWS EFS...

> The rules engine is deployed into the existing AWS ECS infrastructure as a spring boot application. The service has access to AWS EFS service so that it can store its state in the metadata file on the network so that it can recover from the unexpected restarts.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The rules engine is deployed into the existing AWS ECS infrastructure as a spring boot application. The service has access to AWS EFS service so that it can store its state in the metadata file on the network so that it can recover from unexpected restarts.
```

> The rules engine is deployed into the existing AWS ECS infrastructure as a spring boot application. The service has access to AWS EFS service so that it can store its state in the metadata file on the network so that it can recover from the unexpected restarts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We deploy the rules engine into the existing AWS ECS infrastructure as a Spring Boot application. The service has access to AWS EFS service so that it can store its state in the metadata file on the network so that it can recover from the unexpected restarts.
```

> The service has access to the internal maven repository so that it can access the rules artifacts and load them as Kie Containers. Each Kie Container represents one set of rules maintained by a project team.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The service has access to the internal Maven repository so that it can access the rules artifacts and load them as KIE Containers. Each KIE Container represents one set of rules maintained by a project team.
```

> The service has access to customer's LDAP to support security and authorizations, so that only the authorized users have access to update the rules.

Reviewer: ...access to *the* customer's...

> The service has access to customer's LDAP to support security and authorizations, so that only the authorized users have access to update the rules.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The service has access to the customer's LDAP to support security and authorizations so that only the authorized users have access to update the rules.
```

![alt](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/msambaraju/blog-usa/master/images/2019/01/Kie_Server.png)

- ### Development architecture

> Each development team is responsible for the maintenance of their rules, the rules are maintained in the git repository as maven projects. The project contains the rules files in .drl or .xls formats and any dependencies are maintained in the pom.xml such as POJO's used in the rules, or any other utilities used in the rules files.

Reviewer: ...rules *and* the rules...

> Each development team is responsible for the maintenance of their rules, the rules are maintained in the git repository as maven projects. The project contains the rules files in .drl or .xls formats and any dependencies are maintained in the pom.xml such as POJO's used in the rules, or any other utilities used in the rules files.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Each development team is responsible for maintaining their rules. These rules are maintained in the git repository as maven projects. The project contains the rules files in `.drl` or `.xls` formats along with any dependencies which are maintained in the `pom.xml` such as POJO's used in the rules, or any other utilities used in the rules files.
```

> Each development team is responsible for the maintenance of their rules, the rules are maintained in the git repository as maven projects. The project contains the rules files in .drl or .xls formats and any dependencies are maintained in the pom.xml such as POJO's used in the rules, or any other utilities used in the rules files.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each development team is responsible for the maintenance of their rules. The rules are stored in the Git repository as Maven projects. The project contains the rules files in .drl or .xls formats and any dependencies are defined in the pom.xml such as POJO's used in the rules or any other utilities used in the rules files.
```

> The project is configured to built and packaged using the existing Jenkins pipeline into a jar file. The built artifact is pushed into the internal maven repository and it complies to the existing release management process.

Reviewer: ...to *be* built...

> The project is configured to built and packaged using the existing Jenkins pipeline into a jar file. The built artifact is pushed into the internal maven repository and it complies to the existing release management process.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The project is configured to built and packaged using the existing Jenkins pipeline into a `jar` file. The build artifact is then pushed into the internal maven repository and complies to the existing release management process.
```

> The project is configured to built and packaged using the existing Jenkins pipeline into a jar file. The built artifact is pushed into the internal maven repository and it complies to the existing release management process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The project is configured to be built and packaged using the existing Jenkins pipeline into a JAR file. The build artifact is pushed into the internal Maven repository, and it is pushed through the existing release management process.
```

![alt](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/msambaraju/blog-usa/master/images/2019/01/Kie_Container_Process.png)

## Implementation

> The base spring boot application is generated by JHipster so that the capabilities provided by JHipster are already part of the generated application. For more information on JHipster visit [JHipster](https://www.jhipster.tech). JHipster is already standardized at the customer location to support existing infrastructure.

Reviewer: The base spring boot application is generated by JHipster so that we can take advantage of all the features that come with it.

> The base spring boot application is generated by JHipster so that the capabilities provided by JHipster are already part of the generated application. For more information on JHipster visit [JHipster](https://www.jhipster.tech). JHipster is already standardized at the customer location to support existing infrastructure.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The base spring boot application is generated by [JHipster](https://www.jhipster.tech) so that the out-of-the-box capabilities provided by JHipster are already part of the generated application. JHipster has become a standard application at the customer location to support existing infrastructure.
```

> The kie spring boot starter project is included as dependency in the pom.xml and other supporting dependencies are added accordingly

Reviewer: ...as *a* dependency...

> The kie spring boot starter project is included as dependency in the pom.xml and other supporting dependencies are added accordingly

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The kie spring boot starter project is included as a dependency in the `pom.xml` and other supporting dependencies are subsequently added accordingly.
```

> The kie spring boot starter project is included as dependency in the pom.xml and other supporting dependencies are added accordingly

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The KIE Spring Boot starter project is included as a dependency in the pom.xml, and other supporting dependencies are added accordingly:
```

```xml
        <dependency>
	      <groupId>org.kie</groupId>
	      <artifactId>kie-server-spring-boot-starter-drools</artifactId>
	      <version>7.15.0.Final</version>
	    </dependency>
```

Configuration changes in application.yml
```yaml
kieserver:
    serverId: CustomerRulesEngine
    serverName: Customer KIE Server
    restContextPath: /rest
    drools:
        enabled: true
    dmn:
        enabled: true
    jbpm:
        enabled: false
    jbpmui:
        enabled: false
    casemgmt:
        enabled: false
    optaplanner:
        enabled: false
    location: http://${server.address}:${server.port}${cxf.path}/server

cxf:
    path: /rest

jbpm:
    executor:
        enabled: false
```

> The execution server is configured to use the custom maven settings file and custom repository to store metadata with the following system properties.

Reviewer: . -> :

> The execution server is configured to use the custom maven settings file and custom repository to store metadata with the following system properties.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The execution server is configured to use the custom maven settings file and custom repository to store metadata with the following system properties:
```

> The execution server is configured to use the custom maven settings file and custom repository to store metadata with the following system properties.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The execution server is configured to use the custom Maven settings file and custom repository to store metadata with the following system properties:
```

```
kie.maven.settings.custom = /usr/kieserver/settings.xml
org.kie.server.repo = /mnt/efs/kie/repository (this is the mount on the AWS EFS)

```

## Improvements

> The future versions of the application is to enable scaling of the rules execution server and have a front end router application to route the rule execution requests and support the rules workbench.

Reviewer: ...application *will* enable scaling...

> The future versions of the application is to enable scaling of the rules execution server and have a front end router application to route the rule execution requests and support the rules workbench.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The future versions of the application will enable rule execution scaling and have a front-end router application to route the rule execution requests and support the rules workbench.
```

> The future versions of the application is to enable scaling of the rules execution server and have a front end router application to route the rule execution requests and support the rules workbench.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Future versions of the application will enable scaling of the rules execution server and have a front-end router application to route the rule execution requests and support the rules workbench.
```
